Welcome to the Man of Recaps, this is Better
Call Saul, season 3.
In the Future, Saul Goodman is hiding out
as the manager of Cinnabon, one day he sees
a shoplifter get caught and he yells "Kid
get a lawyer!", which is a weird thing for
a Cinnabon manager to yell, and then later
he passes out, woah...
Now back in the present-past, Jimmy had just
admitted to his brother that he doctored the
documents so that the Mesa Verde bank would
go back to his friend Kim.
But he didn't know his brother Chuck was tape
recording him, despite his allergy to electricity.
Chuck tells his partner Howard, but Howard's
like "Hey we can't use this as evidence,"
Chuck's like "Don't worry I've got a plan."
Mike Ehrmantraut last season was going to
assassinate old Hector Salamanca because he
sent the murder twins to threaten his granddaughter.
But back at his car someone left him a note
that said "DON'T"!
Who tracked him out here!?
So Mike takes his car apart looking for the
tracker bug, eventually he finds it inside
the gas cap.
So Mike gets a tracker of his own and puts
that one in his car, then he takes the original
tracker and runs down the battery, so that
night when someone comes to swap it out for
a fresh one, they take Mike's tracker back
with them.
He tracks them too... fast food joint Los
Pollos Hermanos!!!
If you've seen Breaking Bad you know that's
the cover for Gus Fring, the mild-mannered
drug kingpin.
So Mike gets Jimmy to scope things out, but
the guy never meets with anyone, because Jimmy
wasn't paying any attention to the fast food
manager sweeping the floor, and Gus Fring
is on to him.
Now Chuck has his assistant replace the batteries
in the tape recorder, but it starts playing
and he hears Jimmy's confession!
Chuck's like "Yo don't tell anyone," but immediately
he tells Kim, who then tells Jimmy.
Kim's like "Don't worry he can't use that
as evidence," but Jimmy's so mad his brother
deceived him, he kicks down the doors, grabs
the tape and breaks it in front of him.
But Howard and this guy come out, IT WAS A
SET-UP!!!
Chuck knew Jimmy would break in there to destroy
the tape, and now he's been witnessed breaking
and entering.
Later Mike sees the tracker's on the move,
but it was a set-up they were on to him, and
Gus Fring wants to meet in person.
He's like "Why didn't you want me to kill
Hector Salamanca?" and Gus explains that if
he was assassinated they might come after
him.
Mike still wants revenge so Gus is like "Look
maybe we can hurt him a different way."
So Mike goes to Mexico and throws some shoes
over the wire.
When Hector's drug truck comes by Mike snipes
the SNEAKERS - which he put a bag of cocaine
in - and so it sprinkles down over the truck.
When these guys try to cross the border they're
taken in, and the ice cream shop Hector uses
as a front is shut down.
Now Hector and Gus both work for the big Salamanca
cartel boss in Mexico, and Hector has always
hated the "chicken man."
So he busts into the restaurant and he's like
"Hey, now that my supply line is out, you're
going to make room for my product on your
trucks."
Little does he know, that's exactly what Gus
wanted.
Gus is like "Yo Mike, you've got real skills,
you want to work for me full time?"
And of course in Breaking Bad that's how we
first meet Mike, he's head of security for
Gus, but for now he's like "Eh, maybe later."
Mike does have a butt-load of cash that he
stole from Hector Salamanca last season, and
Gus is like "Hey the least I can do is help
you launder it through my friend company Madrigal,
with this girl who is also from Breaking Bad."
So Jimmy spends a night in jail, but they
come to an agreement where if he admits to
everything he just gets a year probation.
But for sabotaging legal documents, he would
definitely be disbarred.
And that's all his brother Chuck ever wanted,
for Jimmy to NOT be a lawyer.
But Jimmy's not going down without a fight!
Chuck had a backup tape obviously and they
play it, which makes Jimmy sound very guilty
(and of course he is).
But he argues that his confession was a lie!
He was just concerned that his brother had
finally gone off the deep end, and only said
that to make him feel better.
Chuck explains that he is just fine mentally,
his condition with electricity
is a real physical thing.
But Jimmy had it proven to him back in season
1 that that's not the case.
So he's like "Chuck do me a favor, check your
pocket," what OH it's a battery!!!
What?!?!
Yeah Jimmy had some guy sneak it in there
and he's like "That's been in your pocket
this whole time, you didn't feel it."
So Chuck screams "I'M NOT CRAZY!!!"
And goes on a huge rant about how much he
hates Jimmy for being a sleazy con-man, and
unfortunately his makes him sound very crazy,
and he realizes that his professional career
is probably over.
And Jimmy gets off with just a one-year suspension!
Now Hector Salamanca hates relying on Gus
for his supply line, he goes to Nacho's Dad's
upholstery store, wants to use that to import
drugs.
But Nacho's Dad is a straight-shooter, he's
like "Get out of here I'm not gonna do it,"
and Hector's like "Yo, your dad might have
to have an accident."
Nacho's a good kid, for a criminal, he's not
gonna let that happen."
Hector Salamanca's got a heart condition,
and he takes these pills all the time, so
he steals one and goes back to his pharmacist
friend he used to deal with in season 1.
He's like "Hey I need a bunch of these pills,
but they need to be fake."
So there's a very intense scene where he has
to swap them out, and, boom, makes the switch
undetected.
So Jimmy can't practice law for a year, but
he's made this great commercial and pre-paid
for a bunch of airtime.
So he makes a new commercial about making
commercials and selling his airtime, and he
goes by the name of Saul Goodman Productions.
"Saul Goodman?"
"Yeah, it's like, s'all good, man!"
So he's out there making local commercials,
but no one wants to pay full price so he's
actually losing money.
So he pays a visit to the old woman from the
Sandpiper case.
That was the big case he started where the
assisted living facility was overcharging
it's residents, and when they finally settle
Jimmy's gonna get a big chunk of cash.
Turns out they've had their first settlement
offer, and it is plenty big for Jimmy's taste.
As the class representative this one old lady
has the power to accept it, but the lawyers
are telling her to wait for something bigger.
So Jimmy decides she needs some peer pressure,
he basically sews distrust among her friends
until before long she's a social outcast.
He goes so far as to rig a bingo game, which
turns out to be the final straw.
She breaks down, "Why do my friends hate me?"
and it's absolutely heartbreaking.
He's like "Yo, maybe they just want you to
accept the settlement?"
So Jimmy's gonna be a millionaire!
Kim's like "Hey congrats, but I gotta run,"
she's had her hands full with the Mesa Verde,
and she's doing so good they recommend another
client - this big oil guy.
So she's driving out to the meeting but she's
been getting way too little sleep, and, OH
NO falls asleep at the wheel and crashes!
Seriously don't drive drowsy, folks.
She's OK, just a broken arm, but she decides
to take a break from lawyering for awhile
and just take it easy.
Almost losing a loved one makes Jimmy want
to reach out to Chuck, but what's this?
Chuck's got his electricity on!?!?
Having had it proven to him that his condition
is mental,
he starts really trying to overcome it.
He's working with a doctor and everything,
pretty soon he can go to the grocery store
with only mild discomfort.
But after his breakdown on the stand no one
trusts him professionally anymore.
Howard's like "Hey Chuck, ya know, maybe it's
time to retire."
But Chuck's not having any of that.
In fact he would rather cash out his half
of the firm, which would bankrupt it.
He's like "Look no one wants that, just keep
me on here it will be fine."
But Howard's like "Look I can't trust you
anymore if that's your thing, I'd rather pay
you off out of my own pocket!"
And he's gathered the whole company to give
him a big farewell, and send him on his way.
But anyway Jimmy's like "Hey Chuck I'm sorry,
you're my brother and I love you."
And Chuck's like "Yo, don't worry about it
Jimmy, to be honest, I never liked you at all."
Ouch.
Now Hector Salamanca has a meeting with Gus
and the representative for their boss, turns
out the chicken trucks are so effective, he
only wants the drugs coming in that way.
And Hector freaks out, he's super mad, and
oh his heart's giving out, and his pills aren't
working, so BOOM Hector down!
He survives though and this is probably what
leads to him being hospitalized for
all of Breaking Bad.
Nacho manages to switch the pills back before
anyone notices, and now Gus and Nacho, what
are they gonna do next season?
We'll see...
So Jimmy goes to congratulate Old Lady on
her settlement, but she's still so sad, her
friends never forgave her!
IT'S HEARTBREAKING!!!
Jimmy tries to fix it, but he did too good
of a job making them hate her in the first place.
So Jimmy knows there's only one thing he can
do to fix it.
He hosts a session of Chair Yoga, but then
he gets a lawyer from Davis & Main to come
and shout at him for manipulating these old
people for his own gain.
And he says awful things, "Oh I hate old people,
they're so annoying," but he intentionally
left his microphone on so they all hear it,
and the friends are back together, but all
old people now hate him.
Which unfortunately destroys the pretty nice
career he built in Elder Law.
Meanwhile Chuck turns off the power before
bed one night, but the next morning he checks
his meter and it's still running.
So he starts checking the walls to see what's
draining the power, and he ends up going full-on
crazy with it.
He ends up in a worse state than he's ever
been.
Unable to trust his own mind anymore, he's
kicking his lamp, until... knocks it over...
AND A FIRE ERUPTS, NOOO!!!
That's how season 3 comes to an end.